The Cleanest Race 
B.R. Myers

p. 45

  Kim saw no actual need to create an actual idoelogy to back up the
  cant, but one of his advisors, a self-styled philosopher named Hwang
  Chang-yop, finally persuaded the leaders to entrust him with this
  task. Hwang had his work cut out for him, because there was nothing in
  in Kim's talk of self-reliance, or of adapting Marxism-Leninism to
  national conditions, that Mao had not only said more eloquently, but
  had done a much ebtter job of putting into practice as well. 

  ... tried not to distract the domestic masses from the de facto
  ideology of race-based nationalism (which of course could not be
  conveyed to the outside world). He had to come up with something
  innocuous, impenetrable, yet imposing, and in the end he did just
  that. 

  true ruling ideology is not juche but paranoid nationalism.

p. 47

  Though Juche Thought is enshrined in the constitution as one of the
  country's guiding principles, the regime has never shown any
  indiciation of subscribing to its universalist-humanist bromides.

  [Juche] decoys outsiders away from the true dominant ideology. Instead
  of an implacably xenophobic, race-based worldview rerived largely form
  fascist Japanese myth, the world sees a reassuringly dull
  state-nationalism conceived by post-colonial Koreans, rooted in
  humanist principles, and evincing an understandable if unfortunate
  preccupation with autonomy and self-reliance.

criticize Bruce Cumings

p. 48

  The historian Bruce Cumings, in apologetic desperation, concludes that
  [Juche] is "inaccessible to the non-Korean." As if North Koreans were
  not as baffled by it as everyone else! The regime's decision not to
  publish a comprehensive Juche treatise under Kim Il Sung's name turns
  out to have been a stroke of genius. 

parent leader: oboi suryong, and like Hriohito Kim Il Sung was more a
mother figure than a patriarch. Worker's Party calls itself the Mother
Party. Thus is not like Confucianism, which dictactes that a mother must
obey even her own sons.

p. 50 

  1987 Soviet aid drops. Raise world market prices for Soviet goods.
  1990s. "Let's Eat Two Meals a Day" slogan.

1994 82 year old Parent Leader passes away

Famine of 1995-1997 appeared to offer retroactive proof that the Parent
Leader had been single-handedly feeding and clothing his people up to
his death.

1994 ration crisis - "military first" government is a diversion from it.
Awkward because relations with US was great -- Clinton groveled, send
energy aid to NK. Toned down invective in English language service, but
domestic propaganda called Agreed Frameworked an abject Yankee
surrender. Dear Leader busy visiting military bases, so provinces have
to take self-reliance to next level and feeed themselves. 

p. 53 

  Soldiers roamed the countryside in search of food, robbing
  civilians... Refugees have provided credible testimony of widespread
  cannibalism. Foreign experts now estimate that about a million people
  -- roughtly 5 percent of the population -- died from hunger-related
  causes during the worst period of the famine, from 1995 to 1997.

p. 55 


support for the regime was not undermined. mid-1990s 

  North Koreans had ceased paying even lip service to Marxism-Leninism.
  Socliasm .. had come to mean only "how we do things," capitalism a
  catchword for "how Yankees enslave the southern brethren." It was
  because the regime no longer derived its legitimacy from a commitment
  to improve material conditions that it did not have to deny there was
  an economic crisis, something the Soviet and Chinese parties had
  destroyed their own credibility by doing.

p. 55

  The Sunshine policy put Kim Jong Il in a difficult position. He could
  hardly admit that the ROK wanted friendlier relations, because this
  would mean it was no Yankee puppet after all. Neither could he
  endanger the flow of aid by continuing to vilify his counterpart in
  Seoul as if nothing had happened. So it was that the official news
  agency ceased its attacks on the South Korean government, and less
  prominent propaganda outlets picked up the slack.

p. 57

  south'South Korean videos and DVD's did a roaring trade in rural
  markets

  the South's prosperity quickly became common knowledge inside the
  DPRK. Realizing it would do no good to deny it, the propaganda
  apparatus in 2000 began openly admitting that South Koreans enjoy a
  higher stand of living. This prosperity was rather ingeniously
  attributed to the Dear Leader's "military first" policy, which had
  allegedly kept the Yankees from unleashing another ruinous war on the
  peninsula. 


p. 57 Korean racism
 
  Koreans in both republics generally agree that they are a uniquely
  homogenous, i.e. pure-blooded people whose innate goodness has made
  them perennial victims of foreign powers.

  [Really? S Koreans complain a lot about modern S Korean shallowness.
  They are cynical about other S Koreans.]

p. 58 

  Although South Koreans are glad that they compromised their
  nationalist principles for wealth and modernity, many of them feel a
  nagging sense of moral inferiority to their more orthodox brethren.
  They may disapprove of the North's actions, but rarely with
  indignation, often blaming America or Japan for having provoked them. 

  [A questionable point by Myers]

p. 60

  In short, the spread of capitalism did not appear to be eroding
  support for the regime. "Making money is patriotic" was said to be a
  popular if informal slogan.


p. 61 Kim Jong Il appears to have been caught off guard by the S Korean
election results in November 2007. It was awkward to concede the truth
that the South Koreans had chosen a pro-Yankee candidate; 

  "this would mean either that the Korean race was not so pure after
  all, or, even more unthinkably, that there was something in Dear
  Leader that had alienated them."

p. 62

  NK propaganda hoped to say Lee Myung Bak had hoodwinked the S Korean
  electorate by keeping his tru political intentions secret... hoping
  the masses would not remember its criticism of Lee's campaign
  platform! But luck was on Kim Jong Il's side.


p. 63 

  Kumgang tourist resort and Kaesong Industrial Zone (both just north of
  DMZ) -- two N-S cooperation projects embarked on during the Sunshine
  Policy era.



  2008 Lee Myung Bak stumble over American beef imports. 

p. 63

  2008 Sept 9, Kim Jong Il fails to appear in public at military parade
  celebrating NK's 60th anniversary. Kim had suffered a stroke in
  August. Pictures of him after. The propaganda apparatus had evidently
  concluded that offering visual evidence of a stroke was better than
  letting the world run riot with rumors of an even more subversive
  nature .... but the decision cannot have been an easy one (Physical
  infirmity always carries a greater stigma IN STATES THAT ESPOUSE A
  RACE THEORY).

p. 64

  Kim Jong Un, the second son of Ko Yonghui, the third wife or second
  mistress. Rumored to have studied in Switzerland and gained an
  expertise in COMPUTERIZED PRODUCTION 


  ??? Meanwhile, however, the North Korean print media stuck to the its
  longstanding policy of acting as if the Dear Leader had no wife or
  offsping at all. [Why?]


2009 launching of missles. slogan of 150 Day Battle. 2 journalists
captured, then Bill Clinon makes a pilgrimage

100 Day Battle immediately follows.

2009 another N Korean naval transgression of the maritime border in the
Yellow Sea (NLL - Northern Limit Line). N Korean ship retreated in
flames.

  [Cheonan sinking - named after the boat]

a corvette: a small warship designed for convoy escort duty.


  Experts in Seoul and Washington were quick to attribute the North's
  provocation to the need to legitimize Kim Jong Un's rise to power. In
  face a hereditary succession already made perfect sense in the contet
  of N Korea's official culture, according to which the DPRK's identity
  and legitimacy were inextricably linked with the Kim family. No one
  from outside the ruling clan could conceivably take over "Kim Il Sung
  Country" (as the DPRK often calls itself) without encountering intense
  and perhaps violent internal challenges to his rule. ...

  The regime's main problem was not how to legitimize the successor but
  how to legitimize the military-first state itself. Just as a
  government in a Western-style democracy must maintain economic growth
  to stay in power, so mus an ultra-militarist regime routinely point to
  triumphs over the enemy if it is not to lose mass support. It stands
  to reason that such a state cannot afford to swallow even a
  small-scale defeat. It should therefore have been clear to the Lee
  Myung Bak administration that Pyongyang would avenge the ship it had
  lost in November 2009. p. 66

May 2010 investigation. well-preserved marker notation on a rusting
torpedo propeller shaft. Proof of a frame up. 

  But even the South Korean right refrained from calling for retaliation
  against the North, or even for the termination of the join North-South
  industrial zone inside the DPRK. Insetad Pyongyang was urged to make a
  pulbic apology for its "mistake." In regional elections in June 2010
  the ruling party was trounced by left-wing parties that had blamed
  Lee for the deterioration of inter-Korean relations. [seems unfair!]

Nov 23, 2010 - North launches an artillery attack form a coastal base
against an island just south of the disputed maritime border. The
South's troops waited to long to return fire. The shelling devastated
Yonpyong Island, killing 2 ROK soliders and 2 civilians. S Korean public
reacted angrily, but emotions were quick to cool. 

  Within days left-wing politicians and journalists were again blaming
  President Lee for the worsening of tensions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Intro

p. 14 mentions "the unreadable diffuseness and repetitiveness of the few
North Korean books available in English"



B.R. Myers is a North Korea analyst and contirbuting editor of The
Atlantic. 

this is a full-length study of the North Korean worldview.

back flap:

  What emerges is completely unlike the West's perception of it. This is
  neither a bastion of Stalinism nor a Confucian partriarchy, but a
  paranoid, nationalist, "military-first" state on the far right of the
  ideological spectrum.

  Since support for the North Korean regime now derives almost
  exclusively from pride in North Korean military might, Myers argues
  that Pyongyang can neither be cajoled nor bullied into giving up its
  nuclear program. The implications for Western foreign policy -- which
  has hitherto treated North Korea as the last outpost of the Cold War
  -- are as obvious as they are troubling.



Conclusion Chapter

p. 166

  This is why it is so futile for the West to promise Pyongyang aid and
  assistance in return for disarmament. As if the poorer Korea could
  trade a heroic nationalist mission for mere economic growth without
  its subjects opting for immediate absorption by the rival state!  

p. 167

  Paranoid nationalism may well be an intellectual void, and appeal to
  the lowest instincts -- there is nothing in North Korean ideology that
  a child of twelve cannot grasp at once -- but for that very reason it
  has proven itself capable of uniting citizens of all classes, and
  inspiring them through bad times as well as good ones.

  Barely-veiled hostility to allies and aid providers, terrorist
  adventurism and drug-running, blithe indifference to trade and debt
  obligations, abortions forced on returnees from Chine -- whence does
  this unique pattern of behavior derive, if not from the belief on taht
  world's "cleanest, most civilized people" can and indeed *must* play
  by its own rules? What other kind of regime would be able to boast to
  its own people that it had signed a nuclear treaty in bad faith?


continuity between imperial Japanese world-view instilled into colonial
era Koreans and the official North Korean worldview that immedaitely
succeeded it. -> racialism irreconcilable with Marx and Lenin.

the distinguishing racialism of NK vs Nazi Germany and colonial Japan:

  the N Koreans believe that their childlike purity render them so
  vulnerable to the outside world that they need a Parent Leader to
  survive. Such a worldview precludes dreams of a colonizing or
  imperialist nature.

NK cannot normalize relations with US, because then the NK people would
realize that it was not the US but their blood brothers the S Koreans
would had been blocking reunification. America's friendship would be
more dangerous than its enmity.

US right needs to learn that Kim Jong Il *cannot* disarm and hope to
stay in power. Can't just condemn Kim Jong Il's evil and perfidy in
refusing to disarm

US Left: overlooks the failure of the ROK's Sunshine Policy (a decade of
generous and unconditional aid) to generate even a modicum of good will
from the North.

  "The unpleasant truth is that one can neither bully nor cajole a
  regime -- least of all one with nuclear weapons -- into committing
  political suicide."

Also, Race-based nationalism is less quickly undermined by heterodox
culture infiltration. (Blue jeans effect)

Most subversive to MK is the public awareness that for all their
anti-Americanism, S Koreans are happy in their own republic and do not
want to live under Pyongyang's rule. No way for the NK ideology to make
sense of this.

Korean tendency to denigrate reason and moderation!

  the prevalance of motherly authority figures, the glorification of
  "pure" racial instincts, the denigration of reason and restraint --
  all these things encourage rashness among DPRK's decision-makers just
  as they encourage spontaneous violence among average North Koreans.
  (p. 171)


















  


  

